Document:System Requirement Specification Document

Title:System Requirement Specification for Online food order and delivery system

Team:
	Direct User, Indirect User,Architect, Business Analyst Quality Assurance Team, System Analyst

Objective (Purpose):
	The online food ordering and delivery system is a Web Application ,intended to  provide complete solution for vendors, users as well as internal users (Staff)  through  a single Gateway using internet. It will enable restaurant owners to setup up online restaurant. Users will be able to browse through virtual restaurant and order food items online without visiting the restaurant physically.

Scope:
	This System allows Users to order food items from restaurant based on cuisine menu. This application will be available for Users 24/7. 
Users will be allowed to access virtual restaurants based on their availability.
User will be able to  review orders history and may able to cancel order within 30 minutes after the order is placed.
	The System will be able to show live Business Operation statistics trends through Customized dashboard for stakeholders.

Definitions:
	OFODS: Online Food Order and Delivery System
	RO: Restaurant Owners
	QA:  Quality Assurance
	Portal: Personalized Online Web Application
	MIS: Management Information System
	CRM: User Relation Management
	BI:  Business Intelligence
	Dashboard: Personalized information presented using  BI techniques such grid, score card, graph.

Requirements:

Functional Requirements:

	Any anonymous User will be able to view different restaurant available to deliver. Any User will be able select a restaurant to view their cuisines.

	Registered restaurants owners will be able promote their restaurant for food ordering and delivering.
	Catalog maintained by System Staff will be able to approve or reject request for adding or removing restaurants from the list.
	Staff will be able to track and maintain orders and deliveries. Staff will be able to collect and maintain a record of all the food licenses and certifications from restaurant owners.
	
	Restaurant owners will be able request to add new food items to cuisine catalog maintained by system. Internal staff will be able to approve or reject request  raised by RO for adding or removing food items from menu.

	System will allow RO to inform internal staff regarding in- demand food items, low stock food items.
	Users and internal staff will be informed well in advanced about or out of stock of food item in menu catalog.

	Food item listing will be provided based on their cuisine type, popularity, quantity, likes and recommendations.
 
         Users will be able to  add or remove food items from food cart. System will maintain food cart for each user to maintain list of food items selected by him/her. Users will be able view all food items from food cart. Food Cart will present food items details, number of food items selected by users with price and total. User will be able to proceed with the order placement.
		  
        	Registered users will be able place an order with the help of food cart maintained by the system. 
	Registered users will be able to cancel the placed order within 30 mins or before the order is prepped for delivery, whichever is the earliest.
	Registered users can get details of previous orders from ‘Order History’. 
		
	 Internal staff will be able to get order details of a particular User. Internal staff will be able to approve and cancel the user placed orders due to some Business policies.
	 BOD will be able to get summary of orders that have been placed, rejected from order processing of System. BOD will get Business insight by observing daily operations with the help of getting orders information.
		
   	 User will be provided with options for payment such as through internet banking or UPI or Online payment option.
 	 user will be asked to submit their payment related information. user will be redirected to payment gateway for secure payment transaction. On successful payment processing using payment gateway, system will notify user about transaction and order placement status.

         User will be able track order status. User will be able track deliver using unique order id and GPS tracking.
	 User will be able accept or return delivery based on quality received.
	 Delivery person will be able get delivery details so that he / she can deliver product to end User.
	 Delivery person will be able to change the status of product delivered.
	Delivery person will be able to list all the delivery personnel ready to deliver on that day.
	 Internal staff will be able to monitor delivery done delivery partners.
	 Internal staff will be able to track food delivery for a particular User.
	
	User will able to submit feedback about the food they received.
	User will be able to get details about placed food orders.
	User will be able to update his/ her personal information. 
	User  will be able to manage his profile maintained by the system. User will be able to change his credentials if required. 
	User will be notified about their order status, delivery status through SMS, Email communication.
	 User will get complete information about his orders, likes, comments, details through a dashboard.
	 User will be able to update his payment related information.

	 System will present dashboard for Users, Vendors, Suppliers as well as BOD.

Dashboard will provide information using graph, score cards, key perfomance indicators as well Grid data prestation.
 BOD will be informed about bussiness operations through reports.
	 Internal staff will be able to monitor daily online activities using their personalized dashboard.
	 User will be able get their purchase related information using User Dashboard.
	 RO will be able track their food sale that are being done through online portal. System and Technical team (IT Operation team) will be able monitor system operations by monitoring logs maintained. 
               
	

NonFunctional Requirement:

Security
Registered User will be allowed to place an order.	
Each stakeholder will be to access system  through authentication process. 
System will provide access to  the content , operations using Role based security (Authorization) (Permissions based on Role)
Using SSL in all transactions  which will be performed stakeholder. 
It would protect confidential information shared by system to 
		stake holder of Shared by stakeholder to system.
System will automatically log of  all stakeholder after some time due to inactiveness.
System will block operations for inactive  stakeholder and would redirect for authentication.
System  will internally maintain secure communiction channel between Servers ( Web Servers, App Servers, databse Server)
		Sensitive data will be always encrypted across communcation.
		User proper firewall to protect servers from out side fishing, velnerable attacks.


Reliability
The system will backup business data on regular basis and recover in short time duration to keep system operational Continous updates are matained, continous Adminstration is done to keep system operational.
During peak hours system will maintain same user experaince by managing load balacning .

Availability
	uptime:   24* 7  available
		 99.999%

Maintainability:
		A Commercial database software will be used to maintain System data Persistence.
		A readymade Web Server will be installed to host online shopping portal (Web Site) to management server capabilities.
		IT operations team will easily monitor and configure System using Adminstrative tools provided by Servers.
		Separate enviornment will be maintained for system for isolation in  production, testing, and development.

Portablility:
 PDA: Portable Device Application
 System will provide portable User Interface ( HTML, CSS, JS) through  users will be able to access online shopping portal.
 System can be deployed to single server, multi server, to any OS, Cloud (Azure or AWS or GCP)

Accessibility:
only registered User will be able to place an order after authentication.
Sales team can reject or approve  orders, shopper requests  based on role  provided.
BOD team will be able to view daily, weekly, monthly, annual businss Growth throgh customized dashboard.
Shoppers will be able to see their product sale graph

Durability:
System will retain User  shopping cart for 15 minutes  even though User loose internet connection and join again.
System will maintain wishlist for User . User  will be able to add products from wishlist  and add to shopping cart whenever needed.
System will implement backup and recovery for retaining stake holders data, bussiness operation data and business data over time.

Efficiency:
on Festival season, maximum number of users  will place order, view products  with same response time.
System will be able to manage all transactions with isolation.
Modularity:
System will designed and developed using reusable, independent or dependent business senarios in the form of modules.
These modules will be loosely coupled and highly cohesive.
System will contain CRM , Inventory , shopping cart, order processing, payment processing, Delivery module, membership and Roles managment modules.
	
Scalability:
System will be able  to  provide  consistent user exeprience to stake holder as well as vistors irrespective of load.

Safety:
Online shopping portal will be secure from malicious attack, fishing.
Online shoppping portal functionalilites are protected from outside with prper firewall configuration.
Online shopping portal will be always kept updated with latest anit virus software.
Bussiness data will be backed up periodically to ensure safty of data using increamental back up strategy.
Role based security will be applied for Application data and operations accessibility.
